Added 'CLI for Microsoft 365 v5.9' release announcement (#668)
pnp/blog: content/cli-for-microsoft-365/cli-for-microsoft-365-v5-9/index.md

While building solutions for Microsoft 365 expands beyond the Windows operating system, managing many platform settings is possible only through PowerShell on Windows. As more and more users work on non-Windows machines, it's inconvenient for them to use a Windows virtual machine to configure their tenants. With the CLI for Microsoft 365, you can configure your tenant no matter which operating system you use. Additionally, using CLI for Microsoft 365, you can manage your SharePoint Framework projects.

## New version of CLI for Microsoft 365 – v5.9

Following our monthly release cadence, we've released a new version of the CLI for Microsoft 365 with some new capabilities. The month of October was no exception. We had a ton of improvements and new commands. Here are a few of the most noteworthy additions.

> For the complete list of what's new and changed, see the [release notes](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/about/release-notes/#v590).

### Get information about the Power Platform cards

> Just started playing around with the preview of Power Apps cards and you want to do some more automation? No worries, CLI for Microsoft 365 got you covered. We stay up to date with the latest tools and added news commands to fetch your Power Apps cards information.

Reviewer: `...has got you covered...`

Get a Power Platform card in a specific environment based on name.

```sh
m365 pp card get --environment "Default-d87a7535-dd31-4437-bfe1-95340acd55c5" --name "CLI 365 Card"
```

List the Power Platform cards in a specific environment as admin.

```sh
m365 pp card list --environment "Default-d87a7535-dd31-4437-bfe1-95340acd55c5" --asAdmin
```

For more information, see the [pp card get](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/pp/card/card-get/) and the [pp card list](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/pp/card/card-list/) commands documentation.

> ### Manage **MORE** SharePoint Online permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Improved managing permissions in SharePoint Online
```

Are all the samples a bit overwhelming and is a bit confusing to find the correct one for you? The samples have been updated with tags to make it much easier to find. A modification has been made on the introduction page to showcase all the available tags.

![CLI for Microsoft 365 samples introduction](./images/samples.png)

Another improvement is the start of something great. We will be updating all our command documentation to include the response output. A few commands have been updated to include the response but their is still a lot of work for all our other commands. This is where we need **your help**. We created a whole lot of issues to include the response output for several commands. If you feel like writing some documentation be sure to take a look at [issue #3754](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/issues/3754).

![CLI for Microsoft 365 output response](./images/response.png)

Many more improvements have been made. Check out the [release notes](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/about/release-notes/#changes) to get more insight.

> 

Reviewer: Let's also mention the new ability to send emails with attachments that we've added in this release

### Hacktoberfest, what a success!

Hacktoberfest was a great success! Thanks so much to all our active and new contributors for your hard work and to all the maintainers for creating so many good first issues. 

### What else

These features are just the tip of the ice berg of what we've shipped in this version. The code base of the CLI for Microsoft 365 has received a huge update as well, making it easier for maintainers and contributors to create new functionality. And so many other fixes.

> Check out the [release notes](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/about/release-notes/#v580) for the complete list of what's new and improved.

Reviewer: We should link to v5.9.0 here

## Contributors

This release wouldn't be possible without the help of (in alphabetical order):

- [Adam Wójcik](https://github.com/Adam-it)
- [Albert-Jan Schot](https://github.com/appieschot)
- [Arjun Menon](https://github.com/arjunumenon)
- [Jasey Waegebaert](https://github.com/Jwaegebaert)
- [Martin Lingstuyl](https://github.com/martinlingstuyl)
- [Mathijs Verbeeck](https://github.com/MathijsVerbeeck)
- [Milan Holemans](https://github.com/milanholemans)
- [Nanddeep Nachan](https://github.com/nanddeepn)
- [Paolo Pialorsi](https://github.com/PaoloPia)
- [Patrick Lamber](https://github.com/plamber)
- [Reshmee Auckloo](https://github.com/reshmee011)
- [Smita Nachan](https://github.com/SmitaNachan)
- [Waldek Mastykarz](https://github.com/waldekmastykarz)

> ### New contributors

Reviewer: Awesome idea to call out new contributors! 👏

---
title: CLI for Microsoft 365 v5.9

> date: 2022-10-31T22:00:00.000Z

Reviewer 2: Blog will be posted during the day isn't it? 😄 
No idea how important this date is, maybe change it to 12:00 😄

Reviewer: This date can't be in the future because otherwise it will publish the post as draft. Ideally, it should be set on the day when the article goes live, ie. Oct 31.

![CLI for Microsoft 365 output response](./images/response.png)

Many more improvements have been made. Check out the [release notes](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/about/release-notes/#changes) to get more insight.

### Sending attachments with outlook

Another notable change is the update to the outlook mail send command. This allows you to add multiple attachments to the command. 

Send an email with multiple attachments.

```sh
m365 outlook mail send --to chris@contoso.com --subject "Monthly reports" --bodyContents "Here are the reports of this month." --attachment "C:/Reports/File1.jpg" --attachment "C:/Reports/File2.docx" --attachment "C:/Reports/File3.xlsx"
```

For more information, see the [outlook mail send](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/outlook/mail/mail-send/) command documentation.

### Hacktoberfest, what a success!

> Hacktoberfest was a great success! Thanks so much to all our active and new contributors for your hard work and to all the maintainers for creating so many good first issues. 

Reviewer 2: Thanks so much is informal English.

```suggestion
Hacktoberfest was a great success! Thank you so much to all our active and new contributors for your hard work and to all the maintainers for creating so many good first issues. 
```

### What else

These features are just the tip of the ice berg of what we've shipped in this version. The code base of the CLI for Microsoft 365 has received a huge update as well, making it easier for maintainers and contributors to create new functionality. And so many other fixes.

> Check out the [release notes](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/about/release-notes/#v590) for the complete list of what's new and improved.

Reviewer 2: Personally, I find we direct the user a lot of times to the release notes 😄
Although it's fine in this place here.

## Contributors

This release wouldn't be possible without the help of (in alphabetical order):

- [Adam Wójcik](https://github.com/Adam-it)
- [Albert-Jan Schot](https://github.com/appieschot)
- [Arjun Menon](https://github.com/arjunumenon)
- [Jasey Waegebaert](https://github.com/Jwaegebaert)
- [Martin Lingstuyl](https://github.com/martinlingstuyl)
- [Mathijs Verbeeck](https://github.com/MathijsVerbeeck)
- [Milan Holemans](https://github.com/milanholemans)
- [Nanddeep Nachan](https://github.com/nanddeepn)
- [Paolo Pialorsi](https://github.com/PaoloPia)
- [Patrick Lamber](https://github.com/plamber)
- [Reshmee Auckloo](https://github.com/reshmee011)
- [Smita Nachan](https://github.com/SmitaNachan)
- [Waldek Mastykarz](https://github.com/waldekmastykarz)

### New contributors

> A warm welcome to all our new contributors! (in alphabetical order):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A warm welcome to this month's new contributors! (in alphabetical order):
```

- [Conor O'Callaghan](https://github.com/Conor0Callaghan)
- [Daniaal Nadir](https://github.com/daniaalnadir)
- [Dushyant Sharma](https://github.com/techsnap)
- [Gaston Flores](https://github.com/gaston-flores)
- [Hüseyin Saatçi](https://github.com/huseyinsaatci)
- [Karnail Singh Choudhary](https://github.com/nightfury-crypto)
- [Nico De Cleyre](https://github.com/nicodecleyre)
- [Priyanshu Ahlawat](https://github.com/PriyanshuAhlawat)
- [Riccardo Solazzi](https://github.com/TheZal)
- [Tanmay Rathi](https://github.com/Tanmay-21)
- [Vividh Pandey](https://github.com/VividhPandey003)

Thank you all for the time you chose to spend on CLI for Microsoft 365 and for your help to advance it!

## Work in progress

Here are some things that we're currently working on.

### Include response output in the docs

> We're actively working on improving our documentation and adding response output to all our commands. This is a lot of work because we have a ton of commands. A few commands are already done to show an example of what we are trying to do but we are definitely looking for contributors to help us. If you feel like writing some documentation be sure to take a look at [issue #3754](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/issues/3754).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're actively working on improving our documentation and adding response output to all our commands. This is a lot of work because we have a ton of commands. A few commands are already done to show an example of what we are trying to do, but we are definitely looking for contributors to help us. If you feel like writing some documentation be sure to take a look at [this issue](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/issues/3754).
```

### New Teams commands to work with meetings

We're working on a series of new commands to allow you to work with teams meetings. There's a lot of work to be done here, so if you like to join in, you're very welcome to checkout our [Teams meetings epic issue](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/issues/3788). 

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should also mention that we are adding some more Power Platform commands as well 😊

### Discussions 

> CLI for Microsoft 365 is constantly growing and evolving. We're always looking for ways to improve. There are still many areas not covered by the CLI as well as many amazing ideas for unique features the tool might provide. Currently we are considering adding support with commands which will allow you to manage file versioning or document sets in SharePoint Online. Your feedback will help us make the right decisions in which areas we should focus on. If you want to help out please do join the currently open [discussions](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/discussions)

Reviewer 3: TBH I would remove the information about discussion on 
- manage file versioning - this we agreed we will do and I already created a issue for group of commands and will now create issues for each command as soon as I find time to do it 😉
- the document set discussion is dead ☠ - and not many folks care about this functionality so lets not focus on it now 😉

What else could we simplify? Let us know what you think by helping out with one of our [open issues](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/issues) or chime in on our [discussions](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/discussions)!

## Try it today

Get the latest release of CLI for Microsoft 365 from npm by executing:

```bash
npm i -g @pnp/cli-microsoft365
```

Alternatively, you can get the latest release from Docker by executing:

```bash
docker run --rm -it m365pnp/cli-microsoft365:latest
```

> If you need more help getting started or want more details about the commands, architecture, or project, go to [aka.ms/cli-m365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365). And if you see any room for improvement, please, don't hesitate to reach out to us either on [GitHub](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/discussions), [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/7rfW4kg6B5), or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/climicrosoft365).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need more help getting started or want more details about the commands, architecture, or project, go to [aka.ms/cli-m365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365). If you see any room for improvement, please, don't hesitate to reach out to us either on [GitHub](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365/discussions), [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/7rfW4kg6B5), or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/climicrosoft365).
```
